---
title: The Power of the Keyboard 
tags: Trying, sample, 
author: Freddie Ventura
show_auto_profile: true
article_header:
  type: cover
  image:
    src: /images/the-power-of-the-keyboard01.jpg
---

I'm just writting this quick entry as a reflexion of how tactile interfaces have helped to worsen human brain.  
If you are what you eat, we eat information and a lot, I don't want to make up some figures here of an study made in the University of Bringhethon, but it is easy to see that we consume information constantly through our senses, devices, past was the TV and the Radio, now is the Pocket Tactile Computer called Smartphone, but that has adopted many useful functions for our lives to simplify calling it some sort of phone, cause people barely use it as a phone but as an everything, and that is good, but has it's downside.  
As everything vanguardist, as another innovation, the time that this has been part of human lives is just tiny in the parsec of the lapse of previous eras in which humans had to actualy idle in their head almost for the whole day, having to interact with others, craft something or just work.  
Most recently humans had been introduced to the massproduction of books and newspapers which had had a fairly expansive impact in human knowledge.  
Instead of idling now the humans were able to recreate individualy stories once were told in public, so you could just buy your ownone and open up that universe in your domain. With the ability of the recoding of the sound and video the experience got a bit more passive as humans had to rely on the scarce broadcasting stations which picked up some content to be shown, probably according to some sort of public utility and sometimes ending up a bit biased, so peoples within the same nation had to share those scarce stations, giving birth this way to a really strong shared cultural domain, which apart of the news you could talk about the tv-serie that was shown at 4pm or that documentary at 8pm on Sundays which kept you puzzle the night before starting school on Monday.  
Well now is not that the past have dissapeared, obviously there are still being books, such as there are still horse cars somewhere out there. Everything is still on, but you are not that likely going to talk about yesterday's 8pm program because you were just omitting basic information on that sentence such as, on TV or streaming, what station, time? I mean, if is no live event is on ever on streaming.  
So what are the chances that you are going to sympathize with a human peer? that you are going to say. Yes I've seen it, they are getting lower those chances, cause the content creation is growing exponentialy as whatever is been added recently, which a big chunk of the conent is amateur such as youtube videos, you have to add all of this new stuff to the previous already existent content.  
Myself in the lockdown watched 4 seasons of F1 from the 90's and they were great, Murray Walker Schumacher and Villeneuve they are inmortalized in the realms of the internet. Did I enjoy those sporting events better than the new "Post"-Pandemic GP's with no supporters and commentators with masks, cars with an infinity of rules which I didn't quite understand?, I mean F1 is still a good product but some 90's Championship battles till the last race were frenetic.  
I lost my point 3 times already, what I wanted to talk was about the dangers of the Tactile Interfaces, such as Android or Iphone devices, they have increased the apparent feed between user and machine, but if you stop thinking about it is quite asimetric, as user is no longer able to manage the intention of what he wanted to do with the device on his hands in exchange for being overwhelmed by tons of notifications and other icons that draw your attention into do what the program wanted you to do.   
If you take a look, I don't think people's life were thought to be spending at least 2h daily, being generous, in between TikTok videos, sharing some pics with some info on it (memes) and reading the catchy headers of some sensational news sites.   
Friends of mine have turned into politicians, by sharing memes, or actors, by using TikTok, or models, by using Instagram and where the idea of calling all of this useless is vague, as some people does really creative stuff, but most of people watch content one after another scrolling their life away into the numbness of their existance.  
That is why I praise that 1% of TikTok,Instagram etc... creators into shifting doing something more than clickbaits, if that video was clever I'm sure you can writte a longer script, if that picture was sensual I'm sure you can do some nice vi...  you can make your own blog.   
Written word is bigger than spoken word, such as we saw the Renaissance, and we are going to spoken word back again, if people like it better to see an easy youtube video rather than a complex novel then the world is more direct but less romantic.   
And this is not about how bad technology is for the human being, but how trendy apps are killing the illustrated culture, if the classic sense of illustration was a book, then a portable computer shouldn't be just a sign of lazyness, if you have the programs you need to write a book, compose music, paint, design a game we have never had creativity this easy. But just uninstall all sort of clickbait programs and be on top of the machine, create your own life not scroll it!!
 
